[MUSIC]
In this and the next video,
we will discuss,
what are the ways to optimize
classification metrics?
In this video,
we will discuss logloss and accuracy, and
in the next one, AUC and
quadratic-weighted kappa.
Let's start with logloss, logloss for
classification is like MSE for
aggression, it is implemented everywhere.
All we need to do is to find out what
arguments should be passed to a library
to make it use logloss for training.
There are a huge number of libraries
to try, like XGBoost, LightGBM,
Logistic Regression, and [INAUDIBLE]
classifier from sklearn, Vowpal Wabbit.
All neural nets, by default,
optimize logloss for classification.
Random forest classifier predictions turn
out to be quite bad in terms of logloss.
But there is a way to make them better,
we can calibrate the predictions
to better fit logloss.
We've mentioned several times that
logloss requires model to output
exterior probabilities,
but what does it mean?
It actually means that if we take all the
points that have a score of, for example,
0.8, then there will be exactly four times
more positive objects than negatives.
That is, 80% of the points will be
from class 1, and 20% from class 0.
If the classifier doesn't
directly optimize logloss,
its predictions should be calibrated.
Take a look at this plot, the blue line
shows sorted by value predictions for
the validation set.
And the red line shows correspondent
target values smoothed
with rolling window.
We clearly see that our predictions
are kind of conservative.
They´re much greater than two
target mean on the left side, and
much lower than they should
be on the right side.
So this classifier is not calibrated, and
the green curve shows
the predictions after calibration.
But if we plot sorted predictions for
calibrated classifier, the curve will
be very similar to target rolling mean.
And in fact, the calibrator
predictions will have lower log loss.
Now, there are several ways to
calibrate predictions, for example,
we can use so-called Platt scaling.
Basically, we just need to fit a logistic
regression to our predictions.
I will not go into the details how to do
that, but it's very similar to how we
stack models, and we will discuss
stacking in detail in a different video.
Second, we can fit isotonic
regression to our predictions, and
again, it is done very similar
to stacking, just another model.
While finally, we can use stacking,
so the idea is, we can fit any classifier.
It doesn't need to optimize logloss,
it just needs to be good, for
example, in terms of AUC.
And then we can fit another model on top
that will take the predictions of our
model, and calibrate them properly.
And that model on top will use
logloss as its optimization loss.
So it will be optimizing indirectly,
and its predictions will be calibrated.
Logloss was the only metric that
is easy to optimize directly.
With accuracy, there is no easy
recipe how to directly optimize it.
In general, the recipe is following,
actually, if it is a binary
classification task, fit any metric, and
tune with the binarization threshold.
For multi-class tasks, fit any metric and
tune parameters comparing
the models by their accuracy score,
not by the metric that the models
were really optimizing.
So this is kind of early stopping and
the cross validation,
where you look at the accuracy score.
Just to get an intuition why accuracy is
hard to optimize, let's look at this plot.
So on the vertical axis we
will show the loss, and
the horizontal axis shows signed distance
to the decision boundary, for example,
to a hyper plane or for a linear model.
The distance is considered to be positive
if the class is predicted correctly.
And negative if the object is located at
the wrong side of the decision boundary.
The blue line here shows zero-one loss,
this is the loss that
corresponds to accuracy score.
We pay 1 if the object is misclassified,
that is,
the object has negative distance,
and we pay nothing otherwise.
The problem is that, this loss has
zero almost everywhere gradient,
with respect to the predictions.
And most learning algorithms require
a nonzero gradient to fit, otherwise
it's not clear how we need to change the
predictions such that loss is decreased.
And so people came up with proxy losses
that are upper bounds for
these zero-one loss.
So if you perfectly fit the proxy loss,
the accuracy will be perfect too,
but differently to zero-one loss,
they are differentiable.
For example, you see here logistic loss,
the red curve used
in logistic regression, and
hinge loss, loss used in SVM.
Now recall that to obtain hard labels for
a test object, we usually take
argmax of our soft predictions,
picking the class with a maximum score.
If our task is binary and
soft predictions sum up to 1,
argmax is equivalent
to threshold function.
Output 1 when the predictions for
the class one is higher than 0.5,
and output 0 when the prediction's lower.
So we've already seen this example
where threshold 0.5 is not optimal,
so what can we do?
We can tune the threshold we apply,
we can do it with a simple grid
search implemented with a for loop.
Well, it means that we can basically
fit any sufficiently powerful model.
It will not matter much what loss exactly,
say, hinge or
log loss the model will optimize.
All we want from our
model's predictions is
the existence of a good threshold
that will separate the classes.
Also, if our classifier
is ideally calibrated,
then it is really returning
posterior probabilities.
And for such a classifier,
threshold 0.5 would be optimal,
but such classifiers are rarely the case,
and threshold tuning helps often.
So in this video, we discussed logloss and
accuracy, in the next video
we will discuss AUC and
quadratic weighted kappa.
[MUSIC]